.TH TEMPFILES 7
.SH NAME
tempfiles \- temporary filesystem used for data storage
.SH DESCRIPTION
Shellby creates a temporary filesystem in 
.IR /tmp
when it starts. This is contained within a folder titled
.IR streambot.XXXXXX

This folder contains all of the pipe files for the core components as well as three subfolders:
.B cache,
.B etc,
and
.B modules

.eo
streambot
 |-cache
 |-etc
 | |-users
 |   |-user folders...
 |     |-hostname
 |     |-nickserv
 |     |-username
 |     |-channels
 |       |-channel folders...
 |         |-op
 |         |-voice
 |-modules
 | |-list
 | |-reload
 |-pipe files...
.ec

.TP 10
.B cache
Contains all of the persistent state needed for the program that can't be stored in memory. e.g. the pastebin data.
.TP
.B etc
Contains all of the shared configuration data for the program. This currently includes the
.BR users
data as well as the following data about the current shellby instance:
.BR channels,
.BR nickname,
.BR hostname,
.BR username,
and
.BR lastContact
.TP
.BR users
The users subfolder has separate folders for each of the users. The folders are named after the user's nickname and contain files with the user's hostname, nickserv account, and username.

They also have a subfolder of channel data which contains their voice/op status in each channel they are in. The voice and op status are contained in files which are empty iff the user is not voiced or opped respectively.
.TP
.B modules
Contains the data and control files for the modules command. The
.BR list
file contains the list of loaded modules. To reload modules you write a pattern to the
.BR reload
file and it will reload any matching modules.
