.TH SUBSTITUTE 1
.SH NAME
substitute \- command to perform substitutions on past messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
[NICK][+INDEX]:s/REGEX/REPLACEMENT/[i|I][g|[0-9]+]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command supports vim like notation to perform substitutions on your past messages. Despite the vim like syntax the replacement is actually performed using sed -E.
.LP
If your provided substitution passes validation it is passed "directly" to sed. Note that some parts of your input are actually modified so that they will behave as though you had provided the same input to sed on the command line (this involves escaping certain characters and has the consequence that you can't use a number of metacharacters).
.LP
The first character following the :s acts as the delimiter. In the synopsis this is "/" however any character can be used instead. The specified character needs to be escaped if you wish to use it literally within either the REGEX or the REPLACEMENT string.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP NICK
If NICK is specified it will do substitutions based on that user's backlog.
.IP INDEX
If an index is specified it will do the substitution to the message that many back(so INDEX=0 is the default behaviour, INDEX=1 will skip a message back).
.IP g
Perform the substitution on all matches in the target message.
.IP i|I
Use case insensitive matching.
.IP [0-9]+
Replace only the nth match, where n is the specified number.
.SH EXAMPLES
To replace the first instance of the word "form" in your last message with the word "from":
.PP
.nf
.RS
:s/form/from/
.RE
.fi
.PP
To replace every letter in your last message with the word "cat":
.PP
.nf
.RS
:s/\\w/cat /g
.RE
.fi
.PP
To surround your last message with quotes:
.PP
.nf
.RS
:s/.*/"\\0"/
.RE
.fi
.PP
To replace all of the words in Orez's second to last message with "blah":
.PP
.nf
.RS
Orez+1:s/\\w+/blah/g
.RE
.fi
.PP
Note that the commands are not prefixed in any way. So a chat log of the last example would look like:
.PP
.nf
.RS
Orez: something really important or funny
Orez: something else
stephenr: Orez+1:s/\\w+/blah/g
shellby: => blah blah blah blah blah
.RE
.fi
.PP
